Adding TypeScript to "Getting Started" (#1800)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io: content/en/docs/instrumentation/js/getting-started/nodejs.md

---

> title: TypeScript/ Node.js

Reviewer: Agreed.

aliases: [/docs/js/getting_started/nodejs]
---

This guide will show you how to get started with tracing in TypeScript and Node.js.

> ## Example Application

Reviewer: Maybe we need a **Prerequisites** section before this section too.

Author: Cool! I have added same statement as one suggested for `browser.md`

aliases: [/docs/js/getting_started/nodejs]
---

This guide will show you how to get started with tracing in Node.js. Please make sure you have required [Typescript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/download) or [NodeJs](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) installed on your system.

## Example Application

This is a small example application we will monitor in this guide.

### Dependencies

> Create an empty package.json. Please run appropriate command based on language you are following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create an empty package.json:
```

Since there's only one command left, we don't need that.

```shell
npm init -f
```

Install dependencies used by the example.

{{< tabs TypeScript JavaScript >}}

> {{< tab >}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{< tab lang="shell">}}
```

npm install express typescript ts-node express @types/express @types/node 
{{< /tab >}}

> {{< tab >}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{< tab lang="shell">}}
```

npm install express
{{< /tab >}}

{{< /tabs >}}

### Code

Please save the following code as `app.ts|js`. If you are using Typescript kindly run following command

{{< tabs TypeScript >}}

{{< tab >}}
tsc --init
{{< /tab >}}

> {{< /tab >}}

Reviewer 2: Replace with 

```shell
$ tsc --init
```

No need for having a tabbing here.

aliases: [/docs/js/getting_started/nodejs]
---

> This guide will show you how to get started with tracing in Node.js. Please make sure you have required [Typescript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/download) or [NodeJs](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) installed on your system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide will show you how to get started with tracing in Node.js.

## Prerequisites

Ensure that you have the following installed locally:

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)
- [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/download), if you will be using TypeScript.
```

Create an empty package.json:

```shell

> $ npm init -f

Reviewer: ```suggestion
npm init -f
```

```

Install dependencies used by the example.

{{< tabs TypeScript JavaScript >}}

{{< tab lang="shell">}}

> $ npm install express typescript ts-node express @types/express @types/node 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
npm install express typescript ts-node express @types/express @types/node 
```

{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab lang="shell">}}

> $ npm install express

Reviewer: ```suggestion
npm install express
```

{{< /tab >}}

{{< /tabs >}}

### Code

> Please save the following code as `app.ts|js`. If you are using Typescript kindly run following command

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using TypeScript, then run following command:
```

```shell
$ tsc --init
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Create `app.ts|js` and add the following code to the file:

```

{{< tabs TypeScript JavaScript >}}

{{< tab >}}
/*app.ts*/

> import express, {Express} from "express";

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
import express, { Express } from "express";
```

Create an empty package.json:

{{< tabs TypeScript JavaScript >}}

{{< tab >}}
tsc --init
{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab >}}
npm init -f
{{< /tab >}}

> {{< /tabs >}}

Reviewer: AFAIK, you'll need `npm init -f` for TS or JS, so you'll want to show the command as it was before, not inside tabs.

Also, this is on a section entitled **Dependencies**. Again, AFAIK of what `tsc --init` does, this command should be in the next section, not this section on dependencies.

Author: Oh thank you so much. I have done the requested changes. I have kept single tab for typescript `tsc --init` command to make it stand out like other commands

Install dependencies used by the example.

{{< tabs TypeScript JavaScript >}}

{{< tab >}}
npm install express typescript ts-node express @types/express @types/node nodemon
{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab >}}
npm install express
{{< /tab >}}

{{< /tabs >}}

### Code

> Please save the following code as `app.ts` or `app.js`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Save the following code as `app.ts` or `app.js`, as appropriate:
```

Author: I have added `add.ts|js` like earlier suggested for `document-load.ts|js`

app.listen(parseInt(PORT, 10), () => {
  console.log(`Listening for requests on http://localhost:${PORT}`);
});
{{< /tab >}}

{{< /tab>}}

Run the application with the following request and open <http://localhost:8080> in your web browser to ensure it is working.

{{< tabs TypeScript JavaScript >}}

> {{< tab >}}

Reviewer: For this `tab` and the next, add the argument `lang="console"`.

$ nodemon app.ts
Listening for requests on http://localhost:8080
{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab >}}
$ node app.js
Listening for requests on http://localhost:8080
{{< /tab >}}

{{< /tabs >}}

## Tracing

### Dependencies

> The following dependencies are required to trace a TypeScript/ Node.js application.

Reviewer 2: remove "TypeScript/ "

app.listen(parseInt(PORT, 10), () => {
  console.log(`Listening for requests on http://localhost:${PORT}`);
});
{{< /tab >}}

{{< /tab>}}

Run the application with the following request and open <http://localhost:8080> in your web browser to ensure it is working.

{{< tabs TypeScript JavaScript >}}

{{< tab lang="console">}}

> $ nodemon app.ts

Reviewer 2: do not use nodemon

These dependencies are required to configure the tracing SDK and create spans.

```shell

> $ npm install @opentelemetry/sdk-node @opentelemetry/api

Reviewer: ```suggestion
npm install @opentelemetry/sdk-node @opentelemetry/api
```

You can also install all instrumentations maintained by the OpenTelemetry authors by using the `@opentelemetry/auto-instrumentations-node` module.

```shell

> $ npm install @opentelemetry/auto-instrumentations-node

Reviewer: ```suggestion
npm install @opentelemetry/auto-instrumentations-node
```

```

### Setup

The tracing setup and configuration should be run before your application code. One tool commonly used for this task is the [`-r, --require module`](https://nodejs.org/api/cli.html#cli_r_require_module) flag.

> Create a file with a name like `tracing.ts|js` which will contain your tracing setup code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a file named `tracing.ts|js`, which will contain your tracing setup code.
```

The tracing setup and configuration should be run before your application code. One tool commonly used for this task is the [`-r, --require module`](https://nodejs.org/api/cli.html#cli_r_require_module) flag.

> Create a file with a name like `tracing.ts`or`tracing.js` (Based on if you are using TypeScript or Node.js) which will contain your tracing setup code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a code file named `tracing`(with a `.ts` or `.js` extension, as appropriate), which will contain your tracing setup code.
```

});

sdk.start()
{{< /tab >}}

{{< /tabs >}}

### Run Application

Now you can run your application as you normally would, but you can use the `--require` flag to load the tracing code before the application code.

{{< tabs TypeScript JavaScript >}}

> {{< tab >}}

Reviewer: For this `tab` and the next, add the argument `lang="console"`.

});

sdk.start()
{{< /tab >}}

{{< /tabs >}}

### Run Application

Now you can run your application as you normally would, but you can use the `--require` flag to load the tracing code before the application code.

{{< tabs TypeScript JavaScript >}}

{{< tab lang="console">}}

> $ nodemon --require './tracing.ts' app.ts

Reviewer 2: don't use nodemon
